modules/training_pipeline/README.md, before:

# Training / Fine-tuning Pipeline 

Training pipeline that supports fine-tuning an LLM on a proprietary Q&A dataset and storing it in a model registry. 

## Table of Contents

- [1. Motivation](#1-motivation)
- [2. Install](#2-install)
    - [2.1 Dependencies](#21-dependencies)
    - [2.2. Beam](#22-beam)
- [3. Usage](#3-usage)
    - [3.1. Train](#31-train)
    - [3.2. Inference](#32-inference)
    - [3.3. PEP8 Linting & Formatting](#33-pep8-linting--formatting)

-------

## 1. Motivation

The best way to specialize an LLM on your specific task is to fine-tune it on a small dataset coupled to your business use case.

In this case, we will use the finance dataset generated using the `q_and_a_dataset_generator` to specialize the LLM in responding to investing questions.


## 2. Install

### 2.1. Dependencies

Main dependencies you have to install yourself:
* Python 3.10
* Poetry 1.5.1
* GNU Make 4.3

Installing all the other dependencies is as easy as running:
```shell
make install
```

For developing run:
```shell
make install_dev
```

Prepare credentials:
```shell
cp .env.example .env
```
--> and complete the `.env` file with your credentials.


### 2.2. Beam
`optional step in case you want to use Beam` 

-> [Docs](https://www.beam.cloud?utm_source=thepauls&utm_medium=partner&utm_content=github)

Export the Poetry Python dependencies into a `requirements.txt` file that will be used by Beam to recreate the same environment:
```shell
make export_requirements
```

Upload the dataset to a Beam volume:
```shell
make upload_dataset_to_beam
```

## 3. Usage

### 3.1. Train 

#### Local

For debugging or to test that everything is working fine, run the following to train the model on a small subset of the dataset:
```shell
make dev_train_local
```

For training on the whole dataset, run the following:
```shell
make train_local
```

#### Using Beam

Similar to the local training, for debugging or testing, run:
```shell
make dev_train_beam
```

For training on the whole dataset, run:
```shell
make train_beam
```

### 3.2. Inference

#### Local

Testing or debugging:
```shell
make dev_infer_local
```

The whole deal:
```shell
make infer_local
```

### Using Beam

Testing or debugging:
```shell
make dev_infer_beam
```

The whole deal:
```shell
make infer_beam
```

### 3.3. PEP8 Linting & Formatting

**Check** the code for **linting** issues:
```shell
make lint_check
```

**Fix** the code for **linting** issues (note that some issues can't automatically be fixed, so you might need to solve them manually):
```shell
make lint_fix
```

**Check** the code for **formatting** issues:
```shell
make format_check
```

**Fix** the code for **formatting** issues:
```shell
make format_fix
```

Commit message:

[SP-5] Ingest historical data (#10)
* feat: Beam support streaming pipeline. Refactored Makefiles

* feat: Temporary deploy SP to AWS solution

* feat: Finish SP AWS deployment

* feat: Refine deploying scriptS

* chore: Clean Makefile

* chore: Fix linting issues

* docs: Update README

* chore: Update user data script

* feat: Add Alpaca News Batch templates

* feat: Add support for ingesting historical news

* feat: Add support for ingesting historical news

* feat: Adapt code to run on multiple processes

* feat: Adapt Makefile & VSC launch file

* chore: Adapt Makefile

* chore: Adapt Makefile

* fix: Linting issues

* fix: Stop Bytewax source on empty list

* fix: Linting issues

* feat: Unify streaming, batch, dev, and prod flow

* fix: Compute the chunk id based on the hash of the chunk to avoid storing duplicates

* chore: Call model.eval() when using the model for inference

* chore: Fix linting issues

* docs: Update streaming pipeline README

* docs: Update streaming pipeline README

* docs: Update streaming pipeline README

* docs: Update streaming pipeline README

modules/training_pipeline/README.md, after:

# Training / Fine-tuning Pipeline 

Training pipeline that supports fine-tuning an LLM on a proprietary Q&A dataset and storing it in a model registry. 

## Table of Contents

- [1. Motivation](#1-motivation)
- [2. Install](#2-install)
    - [2.1 Dependencies](#21-dependencies)
    - [2.2. Beam](#22-beam)
- [3. Usage](#3-usage)
    - [3.1. Train](#31-train)
    - [3.2. Inference](#32-inference)
    - [3.3. PEP8 Linting & Formatting](#33-pep8-linting--formatting)

-------

## 1. Motivation

The best way to specialize an LLM on your specific task is to fine-tune it on a small dataset coupled to your business use case.

In this case, we will use the finance dataset generated using the `q_and_a_dataset_generator` to specialize the LLM in responding to investing questions.


## 2. Install

### 2.1. Dependencies

Main dependencies you have to install yourself:
* Python 3.10
* Poetry 1.5.1
* GNU Make 4.3

Installing all the other dependencies is as easy as running:
```shell
make install
```

For developing run:
```shell
make install_dev
```

Prepare credentials:
```shell
cp .env.example .env
```
--> and complete the `.env` file with your credentials.


### 2.2. Beam
`optional step in case you want to use Beam` 

-> [Create a Beam account & configure it.](https://www.beam.cloud?utm_source=thepauls&utm_medium=partner&utm_content=github)

After you have to upload the dataset to a Beam volume:
```shell
make upload_dataset_to_beam
```

## 3. Usage

### 3.1. Train 

#### Local

For debugging or to test that everything is working fine, run the following to train the model on a small subset of the dataset:
```shell
make dev_train_local
```

For training on the whole dataset, run the following:
```shell
make train_local
```

#### Using Beam

Similar to the local training, for debugging or testing, run:
```shell
make dev_train_beam
```

For training on the whole dataset, run:
```shell
make train_beam
```

### 3.2. Inference

#### Local

Testing or debugging:
```shell
make dev_infer_local
```

The whole deal:
```shell
make infer_local
```

### Using Beam

Testing or debugging:
```shell
make dev_infer_beam
```

The whole deal:
```shell
make infer_beam
```

### 3.3. PEP8 Linting & Formatting

**Check** the code for **linting** issues:
```shell
make lint_check
```

**Fix** the code for **linting** issues (note that some issues can't automatically be fixed, so you might need to solve them manually):
```shell
make lint_fix
```

**Check** the code for **formatting** issues:
```shell
make format_check
```

**Fix** the code for **formatting** issues:
```shell
make format_fix
```
